# formula1-racing-visualization-dashboard
This is an attempt to show the Formula 1 Racing stats throughout history using Visualization.

### Instruction to Visualize the Graphs
* D3JS
    * Run command on Terminal:  
        ```
        python -m http.server
        ```
    Launch `http://[::]:8000` on your browser. Port could be different for you.
    * Dominance of Constructors (Streamgraph)  
    The streamgraph visualization can be generated by going to `streamgraph` folder in python http server mode or launch `http://[::]:8000/streamgraph/` on your browser.
    * Dominance Of Top Drivers (Bar Chart Race Animation Graph)
    The Bar Chart Race Animation Graph is visualized by going to `bar_chart_race` folder in python http server mode or launch `http://[::]:8000/bar_chart_race/` on your browser.  
* Plotly-Dash  
    * Dashboard  
    Run command on terminal:
    ```cd  dashboard
        python cross_geo_tabbed_dashboard.py
    ```
    Launch `http://127.0.0.1:8050/`on your browser.  

    On this dashboard you could visualize 4 tabs names `Circuits Geo-Scatter`, `Speed Trend`, `Grid - Position Correlation` and `Race Status Trend` which would cover all our visualizations.


### Code Strcuture
```
.
├── README.md
├── archive
│   └── *.csv
├── bar_chart_race
│   ├── *.ipynb
│   ├── *.csv
│   ├── index.html
│   └── index.js
├── dashboard
│   ├── config.ini
│   ├── cross_geo_tabbed_dashboard.py
│   ├── *.ipynb
│   └── *.csv
└── streamgraph
    ├── car_manufacturer_streamgraph.ipynb
    ├── car_manufacturers_wins_per_year.csv
    └── index.html
```
* `archive` folder has all the raw data files  
* `bar_chart_race`  
    * has processed data needed for bar chart race and data preparation python notebook with .ipynb extension.  
    * index.html and index.js D3js code.
* `dashboard`  
    * has processed data needed for dashboard and data preparation python notebook with .ipynb extension.  
* `streamgraph`  
    * has processed data needed for streamgraph and data preparation python notebook with .ipynb extension.  
    * index.html for D3js code.